well i think we all realize that
something strange is going on with the
oceans when those creepy creatures start
popping up
a fish with a long bony stick growing
out of its head
a creature that looks like a pulsing
pile of spaghetti
a white shrimp the size of an adult's
palm a toothy fish with glowing ribs
a huge sea beetle the size of a cat a
purple jellyfish that looks like
lava some people call them monsters
some are sure they come from another
planet fortunately scientists quickly
calm people down
these creatures are inhabitants of the
deepest parts of the sea
and have always lived here something
forced them to come to the surface
in the atlantic ocean off the coast of
antarctica
a research ship gets into trouble a
block of ice
breaks off from a large iceberg and
falls onto the deck of the ship
severe frost icy water an impending
storm
there's almost no chance of salvation
waiting for rescuers is impossible it'd
be days before they're found
several crew members fall overboard and
find the water is
ah that's weird the water's warm thanks
to this the crew manages to hold out
much longer
and they get rescued after all
all the oceans begin to warm up normally
waters heated very slowly from the
outside from the sun
greenhouse gases you know that sort of
thing even a tiny
increase in temperature means big
problems now the ocean is heating up
quickly and from the inside
from the bottom scientists send down one
of those deep water research things
which can handle high temperatures and
pressure
the deeper down it goes the fewer living
organisms they see swimming around
almost at the bottom the water becomes
very hot
scientists spot a crack in the earth's
crust is like a volcano
only flat the hot energy of the earth's
core
spills out and heats the ocean
life down there quickly becomes
impossible so all the deep sea creepy
creatures start to swim up to the
surface
the world's oceans are basically still a
mystery whatever unknown animals were
lurking in its depths
they're all swimming around on the
surface now huge squid
the size of a bus appear out of nowhere
and attack
ships that kraken myths not sounding so
crazy now
oceanographers discover new species of
animals every day
but hot water isn't the only thing
forcing all these beings out of the
darkness there's not enough oxygen in
the ocean now
as warm water has way less oxygen in it
than cold
following the monsters from the depths
hundreds of thousands of whales
dolphins sharks and ordinary fish swim
to the surface
all the rich life of the underwater
world floats close to the shores
to get at that precious oxygen people
can't step foot on the beach anymore
at least not in the water who would dare
to take a dip in the ocean
if there's a chance of meeting a
humongous squid or a hungry shark
yikes crabs and turtles come ashore the
struggle for
food begins amongst all sea creatures
people don't exactly just sit by doing
nothing
fishing goes into overdrive of course
fishing like that
can't last forever hot water quickly
evaporates on the surface of the oceans
the massive amount of water vapor turns
into huge rain clouds
the wind drives the clouds inland and
epic rains begin to fall on cities and
towns everywhere
it's been raining all day a powerful
river of water is flowing down the
street outside your apartment
taking cars mailboxes and trash along
for the ride
you're a glass half full kind of person
so
surfing time the next day the rain
continues
and the next one too the ground floor of
every building is underwater
it's like a new sewer system that means
the streets aren't just filled with rain
water
it's way nastier than that luckily the
rain is finally ending
the water slowly receding but there's
another disaster ahead
thanks to all that hot air caused by the
warmer oceans
tornadoes typhoons and hurricanes become
a daily nightmare
strong winds blow off roofs and ground
all air traffic
windows don't stand a chance people are
mostly hiding in their homes
hoping that everything will end soon but
this is
just the beginning the hurricanes calm
down
you can step out onto a deserted wrecked
street and notice a large shadow
it's getting bigger and bigger you turn
around and see a giant wall
of water a huge tsunami is bearing down
on you
you run back inside and head for what's
left of the roof
the gigantic glaciers of antarctica have
been melting because
of the hot ocean water levels are rising
all over the world
huge tsunamis are everywhere flooding
coastal cities in every continent
the landscape of the planet is changing
millions of years ago
almost all the world's deserts were
actually at the bottom of seas and
oceans
now it's happening again
tsunamis are replaced again by new rains
and hurricanes
humanity begins to accept that life on
earth will never be the same
the biggest human migration in history
is already underway
flooded mega cities are empty being able
to swim becomes essential for survival
you and other people manage to survive
on small bits of land
far enough from the water that
hurricanes and tsunamis aren't that bad
some settle in the mountains which now
just look like small islands surrounded
by
lifeless water life is slowly getting
better
you get used to the endless downpours
and frequent moves
but there's a new problem more than half
of the oxygen on the planet
comes from seaweed and photoplankton
these organisms use the sun's rays to
convert carbon dioxide
into oxygen now because of the hot water
they're all gone most of the forests and
fields are flooded
the earth's atmosphere is losing its
enormous reserves of
oxygen it's getting hard for people to
breathe
oxygen is really crucial for your mind
to work properly not just your body
you move more slowly you can't make
smart decisions
you forget where you're going and why
makes it kind of hard to solve all your
huge problems
but the earth is awesome at adapting
pretty soon the planet's ecosystem
starts to get back in balance
the water in the oceans is still hot but
not everywhere
in some parts of the world new seas have
formed
thanks to the melting glaciers the water
in these seas is nice and cold
and seaweed reappears the air gets
filled back up with oxygen
and you take your first deep breath in
ages
the endless rains keep coming
and it's not just the ocean getting
hotter it's also the atmosphere
those life-saving new seas start
evaporating
there are completely lifeless spots on
every continent
full of hot water and hot air but people
aren't running out of water
there's a steady supply from the melted
glaciers which are mostly
not salty so score in place of
antarctica
there's now a freshwater fifth ocean or
is it a sixth ocean i can never remember
marine life adapts to the new conditions
pretty soon there are fish
everywhere now people have access to
nutritious fish and algae
some people don't want to bother with
the constant flooding and just decide to
live on the water
all year round they build large cruisers
complete with apartments
schools gyms restaurants shops and a
whole lot of sushi
you decide to go on a trip around the
world and now's the best time to do it
you can actually sail over flooded
cities sometimes you can even see the
tips of skyscrapers
sticking out through the water more and
more people decide to spend their lives
wandering the oceans the cruisers get
bigger and bigger
then people start combining ships to
create enormous floating cities
there's a rush for the new tech that can
help us live underwater
half of humanity ends up living under
the sea but there are still epic
problems scientists need to get in gear
and figure out how to stop the oceans
from overheating
it's even starting to boil in some
places that means
in the future water reserves will
evaporate and the oceans slowly dry up
engineers create huge cooling filters
and
install them all over the planet it's
not going to fix everything
but it'll make enough cool water for us
to survive
fast forward a thousand years and some
oceans are bone dry
that means new continents the non-stop
rains
almost stop whatever cracks opened up
that heated up the oceans
have sealed themselves back up the
planet survived
but it's got a serious makeover in some
places
the ocean floor has been transformed
into cities farms and forests
where there's still water the hot new
pastime is underwater excursions
want to swim through times square or
take a scuba selfie by the clock on big
ben
hey go for it